# 6g-channel-estimation-dataset
## Dataset Description

In this study, the dataset used to train the DL-based channel estimation models is generated through a reference example in MATLAB 5G Toolbox, i.e, "Deep Learning Data Synthesis for 5G Channel Estimation". In the example, a convolutional neural network (CNN) is used for channel estimation. Single-input single-output (SISO) antenna method is also used by utilizing the physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) and demodulation reference signal (DM-RS) to create the channel estimation model.  The reference example in the toolbox generates 256 training datasets, i.e., transmit/receive the signal 256 times, for DL-based channel estimation model. Each dataset consists of 8568 data points, i.e., 612 subcarriers, 14 OFDM symbols,  1 antenna. However, each data point of training dataset is converted from a complex (real and imaginary) 612-14 matrix into a real-valued 612-14-2 matrix for providing inputs separately into the neural network during the training process. This is because the resource grids consisting of complex data points with real and imaginary parts in the channel estimation scenario, but CNN model manages the resource grids as 2-D images with real numbers. In this example, the training dataset is converted into 4-D arrays, i.e., 612-14-1-2N, where N presents the number of training examples, i.e., 256.  For each set of the training dataset, a new channel characteristic is generated based on various channel parameters, such as delay profiles (TDL-A, TDL-B, TDL-C, TDL-D, TDL-E), delay spreads (1-300 nanosecond), doppler shifts (5-400 Hz), and Signal-to-noise ratio (SNR or S/N) changes between 0 and 10 dB. Each transmitted waveform with the DM-RS symbols is stored in the train dataset, and the perfect channel values in train labels. The CNN-based channel estimation based is trained with the generated dataset. MATLAB 5G toolbox also allows tuning several communication channel parameters, such as the frequency, subcarrier spacing, number of subcarriers, cyclic prefix type, antennas, channel paths, bandwidth,  code rate, modulation, etc. The channel estimation scenario parameters with values are given for each in the following table.

- [Dataset](https://github.com/EsraaMokhtar/6g-channel-estimation-dataset/blob/main/data.mat)
- [Defensive Distillation Implementation](https://github.com/EsraaMokhtar/6g-channel-estimation-dataset/blob/main/util_defdistill.py)
